docs: add dev blog post for distribution `2524` (#2576)
input-output-hk/mithril: docs/website/blog/2025-06-16-distribution-2524.md

---
title: Distribution `2524` is now available
authors:
  - name: Mithril Team
tags: [release, distribution, 2524]
---

> ### Distribution `2524` is now available
> 
> The [`2524.0`](https://github.com/input-output-hk/mithril/releases/tag/2524.0) distribution has been released, introducing the following changes:
> 
> - Support for `Cardano node` `10.4.1` in the signer and the aggregator
> - Support for recording client types origin (library, CLI and WASM) in the aggregator metrics.
> - **Unstable** Support for UTxO-HD snapshot converter `tools utxo-hd snapshot-converter` command in client CLI.
> - **Unstable** Support for partial cardano database restoration in `cardano-database` command with `--backend v2` parameter.
> - Bug fixes and performance improvements.
> 
> This new distribution has been deployed to the **Mithril aggregator** on the `release-mainnet` and `release-preprod` networks.
> 
> If you are running a **Mithril signer**:
> 
> - **pre-release-preview** network: no action is required at this time
> - **release-preprod** network: upgrade your signer node binary to version `0.2.249` – no configuration updates are required
> - **release-mainnet** network: upgrade your signer node binary to version `0.2.249`– no configuration updates are required.
> 
> You can update the Mithril signer using the one-line command below. It downloads to the current directory by default, but you can specify a custom folder using the -p option:
> 
> ```bash
> curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://raw.githubusercontent.com/input-output-hk/mithril/refs/heads/main/mithril-install.sh | sh -s -- -c mithril-signer -d 2524.0 -p $(pwd)
> ```
> 
> For any inquiries or assistance, contact the team on the [Discord channel](https://discord.gg/5kaErDKDRq).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Distribution `2524` is now available

The [`2524.0`](https://github.com/input-output-hk/mithril/releases/tag/2524.0) distribution has been released, introducing the following changes:

- Support for Cardano node v.10.4.1 in the signer and aggregator
- Support for recording client origin types (library, CLI, WASM) in aggregator metrics
- **Unstable** support for UTXO-HD snapshot converter `tools utxo-hd snapshot-converter` command in the client CLI
- **Unstable** support for partial Cardano database restoration using the `cardano-database` command with the `--backend v2` parameter
- Bug fixes and performance improvements.

This new distribution has been deployed to the **Mithril aggregator** on the `release-mainnet` and `release-preprod` networks.

If running a **Mithril signer**:

- **pre-release-preview** network: no action required at this time
- **release-preprod** network: upgrade the signer node binary to version `0.2.249` – no configuration changes required
- **release-mainnet** network: upgrade the signer node binary to version `0.2.249`– no configuration changes required.

To update the Mithril signer, use the following one-line command. By default, it downloads to the current directory. Use the -p option to specify a custom folder:

```bash
curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://raw.githubusercontent.com/input-output-hk/mithril/refs/heads/main/mithril-install.sh | sh -s -- -c mithril-signer -d 2524.0 -p $(pwd)
```

For any inquiries or assistance, contact the team on the [Discord channel](https://discord.gg/5kaErDKDRq).
```
